Cosmetic and personal care products are used in huge quantities throughout the world. People want to look beautiful and the concept of cosmetics is as old as mankind and civilization. The urge to beautify one’s own body and look beautiful has been an urge in the human race since the tribal days. But these products, which are supposed to make us feel
healthy and look beautiful, have a deep dark side. Various toxic ingredients and hazardous chemicals products as additives, fragrances, preservatives, stabilizers, surfactants, dye trying to potentiate their
quality, property and shelf life, are incorporated beyond acceptablelimits. Owing to their widespread use, active residues of cosmetic products are continuously introduced into the environment in several ways. Many of these chemicals are bioactive and are characterized by
potential bioaccumulation ability and environmental persistence, thus exerting a major risk to humans and the health of ecosystems. All these factors leading to the major threat of climate change. Hence, the
indiscriminate consumption of cosmetics may present a looming issue with significant adverse impacts on our planet.

The goal of this project is to help people make eco- conscious decisions about the beauty products they commonly use. For this a mobile application has been designed, developed and tested for android platform. This has been achieved using SDK as the flutter software that is scripted in dart language. The primary aim is to develop a platform that
would provide a catalogue of products, each enlightening them about the dangers hidden inside them. But addressing the problem isn’t the only motive here. In an era where it is difficult to picture a day without a single cosmetic, this application offers a diverse range of industry-leading
items and brands without jeopardising the environment. This shopping solution has been provided as an alternative for each product. We created a user-friendly software that is simple to navigate and browse. For people who want to go green with their products but don’t have time to browse through different websites this application is a one time stop that will perfectly carter their needs. This also reaches out to the vast population who are still unaware of the harms they are unknowingly causing with those appealing cosmetics they fall prey for. This section of consumers along with understanding the harms can also switch into a greener lifestyle by effortlessly shopping through the alternatives provided.

Our quest for a more sustainable future does not end here. We've chosen to improve our app by gathering exact data on the carbon footprints that each product leaves behind. Also included is the large range of items available in the cosmetics industry. We'd also like to collaborate with
companies that are working to safeguard the environment without sacrificing product quality. By doing so, we can get customers to shop with just one app, saving them time. We are at a critical juncture in history, where humanity is attempting to find new ways to strike the correct balance between the demands of nature and modern existence.
We are attempting to be a part of this collaborative effort to create a new culture that can have a beneficial impact on our world through our app
